Episode 6 of my podcast "Coffee with Nish".
This is the start of the "article" (writing?) I have been writing for more than a year now. So, I thought I could record and give it a shot in a podcast (more like a thought-cast?).

Everything from audio, video and scripts can be found here:
https://github.com/NISH1001/sounds

Text Format:
If there’s one thing that you should know, it is that the universe doesn’t stare back at you when you are hoping it to. It stares at you at the times you feel lonely, coward, engulfed by inferiority complexes and a whole lot of strange moments you wouldn’t expect it to be. While you take your moment to contemplate your thought processes, you realize your coffee is getting colder and colder. Every sip of the caffeine you intake, your mind becomes cold and cold, your veins getting pumped up by these surreal thoughts that keep on expanding like your eyes dilating whenever you reach for darkness. There’s no hope on what can be controlled and what you can let go of. You are confined to your mind, wandering on this barren land of life and death, hoping to get trapped in this never-ending cycle of self-improvement and disambiguation of “self”. Your thoughts are like parasites eating you inside out. Not that they are not “good”, but surely everyone has an addiction to “thoughts” itself. You take another sip from your cup and think back to how life has been going on at the moment and acknowledge the things you have done so far. Remembering what you used to be and what has changed. How the paths have taken you to the “current” you taking a sip of thoughts off your cup of the mindless well. You take another sip. Rewind to that first moment you felt like you had undergone metamorphosis. What you had hoped life will be like. But in the end, you are stuck to the “self” and the concept of “self” seems to be the only thing that has mattered since then.
Meanwhile… The podcast you are listening to spits out some of the concepts of stoicism. You are not sure who you are, what you are and what the world should be around you. You are self-centered. You don’t give a fuck about anything else. People tell you are being pompous (but never arrogant). Sometimes you find yourself leaving your room, without letting folks around you know, and wander mindlessly around like a leaf floating here and there, hoping to fall down to the ground at some point. That’d be an ultimate death that you are expecting — getting detached from the branch and trying to find a direction where you should be headed to; ultimately falling to the ground and becoming dust.

You take another sip. You take a peek into the cup. The level hasn’t budged even a centimeter. You feel you are sucking blood off the dead. You take another ride into your memory lane. This time it’s the chains of transformation you have gone through. Surely it’s more than just metamorphosis. Life hasn’t been like a moth emerging from a cocoon. Surely it was the first time you realized “self” is the only thing that mattered. But as time has passed, you feel like a snake shedding its skin time and again. Sometimes you feel you are biting your own tail. At other times you feel like a hamster running in the wheel.

Memories are a double-edged sword. Some staple the paths you have taken. Some act as holes that you can (will) never burrow. But… Memories are what they are meant to be — a source of inspiration for what you are and what you can. Memories are The Zone you always try to get yourself trapped into. Like a limbo, you want to escape for your own self. You take another sip. This time you are thinking about The Zone, which is nothing but a manifestation of reality juxtaposed with your thoughts and views on how every “self” should be.

You take another sip. And realize The Zone is real, in parts (or as the sum) in your life. The Zone is one of the manifestations of “self”.
